C
 
MACHINE LEARNING BASED DATA-DRIVEN APPROACH FOR 
BUILDING ENERGY STAR SCORE PREDICTION
1. INTRODUCTION
The Energy Star score gives a comprehensive depiction of your building’s vitality execution, considering the building's physical assets. It is a simple but powerful tool expressed as a number on a simple scale of 1-100. Based on genuine measured data, energy Star Score evaluates how the buildings is performed by considering its physical properties, operations, and how individuals utilize it. In this work, we predicted the scores  
sing regression (linear regression, Random Forest regression and interpret regression) and classification methodologies (Random Forest Classifier and Interpret Classification). One of the key features is that we can interpret an ensemble of decision trees is through the key features, these can be interpreted as the variable which are most predictive of the target. As we can try to peer into the black box of the model we build, we can know the accurate and predict the score to within 9.1 points. The random forest regressor trained on the training data was able to achieve an average absolute error of 10 points on a hold out testing set, which is significantly better than the baseline measure.
1.1 Abstract:  An energy star score is a percentile comparison of your building against other comparative buildings within the U.S. An energy performance score gives an outside reference that makes a difference vitality directions survey how effectively a building employments vitality relative to comparable buildings. As a quick understanding this Energy star score permits everybody as how building is performing as the score of 50 speaks to middle vitality execution, whereas a score of 75 or higher demonstrate building may be a beat entertainer and may be qualified for certification. With the assistance of water-normalized vitality utilize escalated, costs, water utilize, nursery gas emanations, or another execution pointer of your choice. So, these factors help us to compare and predict a better score. As per the fire stations report on Energy utilize comparison portfolio director empowers us to choose from 18 wide categories and 80 distinctive capacities to portray the sort of building. This makes it simple for us to recognize and compare for superior understanding.
In this work, we depict the investigation of NYC benchmarking dataset, which degree 60 factors over 
11,000 unmistakable buildings, in this study. Agreeing to nearby NYC Benchmarking Law (neighbourhood law 84 of 2009), annually benchmarking and distribution of vitality and water utilizing information is required. A single building with a net floor space more prominent than 50,000 square feet (Sq. ft) and assess parcels having more than one building with a net floor zone of more than 100,000 sq. ft that incorporates charges. The NYC Benchmarking Law in the year 2018 expands to encompass properties larger than 25,000 sq. ft. We utilized the dataset incorporates data provided to the City by Admirable 1, 2016, for calendar year 2015 vitality and water utilization measurements. The metrices are calculate by Natural Assurance Agency’s and taken after by Vitality STAR portfolio Director, with information is self-reporting by building proprietors. Information accessibility is open, permitting building’s execution to compare between nearby and national information, incentivizing the foremost exact benchmarking of vitality utilization, and illuminating vitality administration choices.
Our interest is to calculate the Energy star Score which is often used for aggregate measure of overall 
efficiency of a building by considering some key factors like Gross floor Area, Energy and water, Site EUI, source EUI, Fuel oil, Natural Gas use, Electricity use, GHG Emission, Property GFA etc. The energy star score could be a percentile evaluation of a building’s vitality execution based on self- detailed vitality utilize. In spite of the fact that the precise usage points of interest may change, the common structure as takes after: information cleaning and arrangement, Exploratory information examination, Include building and choice, building up a standard and execution metric, performing hyperparameter optimization, testing information set, deciphering demonstrate comes about to the most noteworthy degree conceivable and at long last drawing conclusions.
1.2 Contribution:
The major contribution of this work is as follows:
i)	Find the predictors within the dataset for the Energy Star Score
ii)	To predict the Score, we use Regression/Classification models that can predict the Energy Star 
Score of the building with the given dataset of buildings energy
iii)	Now we interpret the results of the model and use it as the training model and try to infer with the 
new buildings and get the score of Energy Star Score of new buildings

